---
title: Command Line
weight: 13
menu:
  main:
    parent: User Guide
    identifier: Command Line
    weight: 12
---

To get built-in help on the available command line options, run

~~~
java -jar eb.jar --help
~~~

The most common and useful commands will be explained at some depth in this
guide, however the built-in help above will be complete, with proper syntax for
all commands.

There is more than one way to invoke EngineBlock. The sections below explain
more about them, with more detail about how EngineBlock works as you read
further.

__Running a pre-defined activity__

You may want to simply run one of the activities that are packaged with
EngineBlock. This is the easiest way to use it, but also the one that offers the
least amount of flexibility.

~~~
java -jar eb.jar activity alias=<alias> type=<type> param=<value> ...
~~~

This shows you how to run an activity and set the initial parameters for it. If
you have special characters in your activity parameters, you may need to use
single or double quotes around the affected parameter, as in "parameter2=some
value".

The activity option is, in fact, CLI sugar for scripting. It simply creates the
script behind the scenes which will run the specified activities till they
complete. In fact, this script snippet is added at the end of the current script
buffer, in the order that it appears in the command line.

__Running a scenario script__

If you actually do want to control the EngineBlock scenario with your own script logic,
you can:

~~~
java -jar eb.jar script <scriptfile> param=value ...
~~~

This starts EngineBlock in script mode. In this mode, you provide a script which
will control the scenario, starting activities, changing their behavior while
they are running, and stopping them as you wish. This is called a Scenario
Control Script, or simply _scenario script_ for short.


With this mode, you can build test scenarios which are more sophisticated than a
simple activity definition will allow.

No matter how you start an EngineBlock scenario, a control script is always the
outer-most level of logic. The scripting runtime is simply Java 8's Nashorn. You
can do anything in your script that it allows. Furthermore, elements of the
[core runtime](/user-guide/concepts) are wired into the scripting sandbox.

You can combine script and activity related command options in the same command
line:

    java -jar eb.jar \
    start alias=test1 type=diag threads=2 interval=50  \
    script=script2.js \
    run alias=test3 type=diag threads=2 interval=50 

The order of execution is preserved. The only caveat is that activities that are
added in this way will be required to run completion before the scenario script
exits. The point at which they are inserted into the script buffer will
determine when they are started. The cycle parameter on each one will determine
how many cycles it runs for before graceful exit.

__Learning about activities__

If you need to learn about what activity types are available in your runtime,
their required parameters, etc, do this:

    java -jar eb.jar --list-activity-types
    
Each activity type that is known to your runtime will be listed. You can also
learn more about a particular activity type like this:

    java -jar eb.jar help <activity type>

